Good morning. You can turn with me this morning in your Bibles to First Peter, chapter one. We're going to turn our attention again to this book, this letter. It's a letter written by Peter the Apostle, the messenger of Jesus Christ. Peter is one who accompanied Jesus in his earthly ministry. Throughout it, he was a witness of Jesus resurrection and a witness to Jesus ascension into heaven. He experienced personally the pouring out of the Holy Spirit at Pentecost. So this is a man who knows Jesus. And the message that he brings is from Jesus Christ, he says. And so it comes with the authority of Jesus. And the message he brings is of Jesus Christ. And so it's a message that concerns Jesus. Jesus is at the center of it all. And Peter is writing to, he says, elect exiles, which is a phrase, just means those who have been chosen by God, secure in him, not of this world, even as they're living in it. And so, in other words, he's writing to Christian people. So here is Peter writing to Christians this message from Jesus concerning Christ and concerning life in Christ. And then we've been slowing down and taking a look and pouring over this letter a bit here in the first chapter. And as we did this, we first came across the word hope. In the Scriptures, we see that hope refers to a trust, a confident expectation and assurance that's grounded in God's past actions and looks towards his future promises. Peter describes this hope as a living hope. So it's kind of organic. It grows in us. And last week we encountered the word inheritance. We considered how marvelous it is to be those who have received an imperishable, undefiled, unfading inheritance, eternal life in a restored relationship with God through Christ. And we considered how both the inheritance and us as the people who are receiving the inheritance, that both of those us and the inheritance are being kept and guarded by God himself. That all sounds great. Hope and an inheritance and living hope. And it's just like super, kind of positive. But if you've been a Christian for a while, you'll find that this living hope and this marvelous inheritance are accompanied with trouble in this life. And this is the next thing that Peter is going to talk about in his text and that we're about to read. So we're going to consider trials. We'll look at the nature of trials and the purpose of trials, and then our response to trials. So hear the word of the Lord this morning. I'm going to read from verse three, but we're going to be looking at verses six and seven of chapter one. Hear the word of the Lord. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance that's imperishable, undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you who by God's power, are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice. Though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials so that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. This is the word of the Lord. This morning, Peter says five things about the nature of trials. The first thing he says is that trials are various, multifaceted, manifold, having many diverse parts. There's a definition for you of various. We experience loss of a wide variety of things. There's death that comes to members of our family or friends, neighbors. As Christians, we can suffer some level of persecution for our faith. We live in a world where relationships are strained. There can be difficulties there. There are those who we love who have rejected our way and rejected the faith. There are attacks that come from within and outside the church. There are illnesses that we experience. There's cancer that has to be fought. There can be the loss of property through fire or through people stealing stuff and so on. Yeah, various trials. Various. They're different types. The elders of this congregation gather each month for prayer. And even in a. Congregation in a. In a. Where we're not quite a megachurch, in a small congregation of this size, the number of trials is significant. People carry burdens. When we pray for the congregation, we pray about those things which we have come to know about. But we're also very well aware of the fact that we don't know what everybody is struggling with. And at any given point in time, various trials, various griefs and sorrows that are the fallout of those various trials. We experience various trials. The second thing Peter says is that these trials are now. They're. They're a present reality. The world that you live in is a world of trials. You're. You're just going to face trials. There's no escaping it. And of this various types. So it's a. It's a now it's the expected state of things. The third thing that he says here in the text is that these various trials are now and for a little while now, when I was growing up, we would go on family trips. And those of you have may have had this experience before if you have your family with you in the car. I was guilty of this, I'm sure, on numerous occasions of the question, the inevitable question, how long until we get there? How long until we get there? And for the child, the trip, at this point, when they ask that question, the trip, the timing of this trip has descended into an area of time which they refer to as forever. This is taking forever. And of course we don't know. That's sort of an unlimited, a very long period of time. But the parent knows, well, maybe only a few more minutes or maybe a few hours, but eventually we're going to get there. It's really not that long until we're there. It's not forever. And so it is with our trials. It doesn't seem like this if you're experiencing a trial. It doesn't seem like it's only for a little while. We might ask the Lord, how long until we get there? This trial is going on forever. But if one views his or her life here on this earth through the lens of eternity, this is a very short life we live here in this world. And the trials we experience are short lived. They are for a little while, as Peter says. The fourth is, he says that our trials are only if necessary. Now this is difficult, but suffering and trials are not random. That's Peter's point. Things aren't happening randomly to you accidentally. In fact, here Peter is saying that we only experience trials, which is. I mean, think about this. If you're in the midst of a trial right now, you are only experiencing this trial according to the Bible because it's necessary. Necessary. I mean, we see in Jesus life that it was necessary for him to undergo the trials that he did. Nothing was random. Peter, when he's preaching at Pentecost, he makes this interesting statement. He says, Jesus, he's talking to the people. He's saying, Jesus was delivered up, delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. And in doing that, you crucified and killed him by the hands of lawless men. Our trials are necessary. Peter saying that the trials of Jesus, that he was delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God, there was no accident at all. Similarly, our trials are according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. The things that we experience, they are not random. They're necessary. At the same Time. He doesn't excuse those who might inflict suffering on you. Peter notes that Jesus was killed by the hands of lawless men. We see this principle throughout Scripture. God's people are always being trained and disciplined into a closer relationship with God through trials that are inflicted upon them by, like, lawless people. For example, the Egyptians or the Philistines or the Assyrians or the Babylonians. These were not the sweet, good people that came to tell the Israelites how to live their life. They were lawless men. And the Lord used them to inflict his people. They had to walk through a trial. It was necessary. He's not saying anything about the wickedness of those who might be afflicting us, but he is saying something to us today about the trial, and he's saying that the trials are necessary. The Lord will, of course, handle all wickedness and unrighteousness on this earth. Peter is more concerned that we understand that our trials are necessary, that they are from God's hand. That's it. The fifth thing he says is that trials bring grief. Peter acknowledges that these necessary trials have brought us great grief. If you've walked through a trial, you've been grieved by that trial. You may have been ripped apart emotionally. That's what trials do. You've spent time sitting in silence somewhere, crying quietly or crying loudly. You've wondered if you could have done something different, if the whole thing could have been different, if there's something you could have done to prevent all the grief that you're now experiencing. You're grieving that way, wondering you you're regretting. Here's somebody who dies suddenly and you're regretting why you didn't say this to them or how you didn't, you know, tell them this before, and now they're gone. And there's no doing that. You see, the trial of that person's death is grieving. You've endured things when you're grieving people who are sad, those who are not currently walking through it, wrongly so. But often they don't know what to do with a person who's grieving, so they get impatient with you. We say things like, you know, when are we going to get back to normal? As if grieving and wrestling with the difficulty of life is somehow abnormal. We say things like, you need to get over it or move on. We grieve. Trials are hard. That's why they're trials. Now we know from the life of Christ, who bore our sorrows, who is familiar with grief, that he grieves with us. We know that the Lord who brings us trials does not like to see us grieve when we take up our inheritance as Christians. That's promised here in First Peter. There will be no more tears or no more grief. And in other words, for a little while, we know that there's no more tears, no more grief. So the Lord is not like. The Lord does not delight in. He does not delight in afflicting people. He's not like sick in that way. He doesn't like making life hard. So then what does it all mean? Well, our trials which cause us grief must be pretty important if our Heavenly Father is willing to insist on the fact that we go through them. His Son's own trials, his death on the cross, these were the means of bringing about our salvation. So what are we got to ask, like, what are the purposes? What's the point of these trials that the Lord sees who loves us and doesn't like to see his children grieving? What is the point of him insisting that we walk through this or that trial? The trial that you're walking through today? What's the purpose? There's this song that was popular about 15 years ago. And then I, you know, as I was, was looking this up, I realized that that was just a 15 year old 15 version, but it really actually was a statement from the German philosopher Nietzsche, who said, what doesn't kill you makes you stronger. You might have heard this phrase before. I wonder if that's like true, because that's not my observation. I mean, what doesn't kill you can make you bitter. And what doesn't kill you can make you angry. What doesn't kill you can make you despair. What doesn't kill you may eventually kill you when it comes back again. What doesn't kill you can make you anxious. Strength and resiliency is like not, not some automatic outcome of trials. And I don't even think the Bible's saying that that's even the outcome. Like, that's not even the goal that trials are supposed to make you, like, tough, that God is a God of no pain, no gain. That's not what Peter says. The Lord brings his people through trials. Well, for what? Well, here in the text, in this, you rejoice, though now for a little while if necessary, you've been grieved by various trials so that the tested genuineness of your faith, which is more precious than gold that perishes, though it's tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the Revelation of Jesus Christ. Why is it necessary? First thing he says is because he needs to test the genuineness of your faith. That's why trials are necessary. Why? Why is it important to do even that? Well, that's because your faith is a precious thing. It has to be tested. He says it's more precious than gold. And gold gets tested through fire. So your faith has to be tested. It has to be seen as genuine, the real deal. And trials, my observation also has trials always do that. They always test the genuineness of our faith. Always. Because trials aren't around to make us stronger. Trials are around to show you where do you put your trust? Will you trust the Lord and his strength? Will you be steadfast, unwavering in that faith that you have in Christ even when things are difficult? That's what the Bible says the trials are for is testing the genuineness of your faith. Are you going to be in Christ in the midst of this? Are you going to lean on Christ or are you going to like, lean on your own strength and hope that the trials make you stronger because it and kill you? James says it like this. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness, unless steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing, it produces that steadfastness of faith. Trials make us stronger in Christ. They make us lean on Christ. That's their purpose. And their purpose is also in testing the genuineness of the faith. Sometimes trials, what they do is they rip out all the other things that we place our faith in. They just rip them out and they show you how that's what you're actually putting your faith in. Here. Here's an old guy who had something to say about a lot of things, but John Calvin, he wrote about this and he said this. He said, the Lord teaches his people about the emptiness of this present life through constant lessons in suffering, through trials, constant trials. Thus, so that his people don't promise themselves lofty and untroubled peace in this life, he often permits them to be troubled and harassed by wars, uprisings, robberies, and other injuries. And so that they don't gawk with too much greediness at frail and tottering riches or rest on those that they already possess, he'll reduce them to poverty. Or at least he'll he restricts them to very little wealth through exile, barrenness of land, fire or other means, so that they aren't too enticed too much by the advantages of a married life, he lets them be frustrated by the offenses of their spouse, humbles them by the wickedness of their children or. Or afflicts them even with the loss of a child. However, there are times when God deals more gently with his people. Yet even when he does so that they don't become puffed up with pride or inflated with self indulgence, he sets before their eyes disease and danger to teach them how unstable and fleeting are those good things that come to men who are subject to death. A life where trials expose the fleeting nature of life and test the genuineness of faith is a real problem if there's no faith. And so our world experiences trials. Those who are not holding on to Christ experience trials in this world like everybody else. And so what do they have? They make up songs. They make up songs about how all those trials that they're experiencing are making them stronger until they're dead. They're denying realities. We. We develop. We develop entire industries to try to escape the reality that trials bring right in front of our face. That's what the world can do because there's no faith. But if there's an inheritance, if there's a resurrection, if Christ is the picture that is always before our eyes, then these same trials produce the effect of, like, invigorating hope in us and our faith. When it's invigorated by hope, well, it's shown to be genuine because we hold on to Jesus in the midst of a trial. The second thing trials do is they grow our faith. Psalm 119 says that it's good for me that I was afflicted. It was good for me that I was afflicted, that I might learn your statutes. Trials lead to learning, to growing up. JI Packer, in writing about trials, says this. He says earthly parents enjoy their babies, and they do. Earthly parents enjoy their babies, but are, to say the least, sorry if their growing children want to be babies again and they hesitate to let them return to babyish ways. The Lord does not want you or me to remain an infant. He wants us to grow up, as the scripture says, into the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. He wants us to grow up, to graduate. As we talk about nowadays at this time of year in the Christian life, this means we've got to walk through difficulty. That's the only way you grow through suffering, through trials that our faith would grow. That's what he's doing. So he's testing the genuineness of our faith. Will we hold on? And then he's growing our faith, strengthening us through trials to trust in Christ, to see that Christ is true. And third trials lead to the completion of our faith. Peter says that all of this testing is done, that our faith might be found to result in. In other words, it's been observed by God and others to have been complete, like fully genuine, which results in praise and glory and honor both to those who have that faith, you know, like praise and glory and honor to the recipients of genuine, now completed faith and praise and glory and honor to God, who is the keeper and guardian of that faith. But the end result of all of the trials that we walk through in life and when it comes to completion, is that there is glory and praise and honor given. That's the fruit. And when will all that be presented? Peter tells us that the revelation of Jesus Christ, on the last day, when Christ returns, faith will be complete or elsewhere as it's written, he who began a good work in you will be faithful to complete it. It'll be over. There'll be no more trials. Faith will be complete. So there are trials. There are various necessary trials that grieve us. There's purpose for these trials to demonstrate the genuineness of our faith, to grow us in faith until the day when faith is no longer needed, when it's completed. So how should we respond? Well, Peter began this little section with four words that give us the answer to that question of how we should respond. And he says in this, you rejoice. The Christian is to rejoice before they experience trials. In this, you rejoice. He's referencing the inheritance and the living hope that they've been talking about before. So we rejoice that we have these things before there's even a trial. We rejoice in this. The rejoicing in us that's talked about in the Bible is always produced in us spiritually. Rejoicing isn't like put on a happy face and pretend like everything's good all the time. It's something far deeper than that. It's a joy that comes from knowing God and having seen his work in us, his faithfulness towards us. Even when those deep trials have come, we've seen God at work and so we rejoice. This rejoicing is also quite different from another thing that happens out in the world where people say things like it is what it is. And just meaning their reluctant acceptance to painful circumstances and pretending like that's just kind of a stoical acceptance of it. This is Rejoicing, knowing that there's purpose in all of these things. It's not just, it is what it is. It is because God wants to do something in your life. And our mindset, our heart set is, is to be one of rejoicing. Then my Father's keeping an inheritance for me. The road's going to be hard, probably will be. But he's promised to bring me home at the end, to guard me by his power through the gift of faith. What Christ has done in bringing us salvation and rescuing us from sin's penalty and power is marvelous. We think about this, we memorize the Scriptures, we actually learn to begin joy before the trials come, as we grow in knowing God and his goodness towards us. But we not only rejoice before we experience the trials, we rejoice in the midst of trials. Because in these things, when we rejoice in the middle of trials, we are probably most Christ like. Then we're sharing in the sufferings of Christ. We also rejoice in the midst of trials because we know where we're going again, Christ is the example. Scripture says, therefore, since we're surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let's lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely. Let's run with endurance the race that's set before us. Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame in the midst of the trial, he experienced joy. He knew where he was going. When you are in the place of rejoicing in the midst of your trials, and this is my encouragement for when you get there, you're free. Because whatever didn't kill you didn't make you bitter. And whatever didn't kill you make you despair. And whatever didn't kill you didn't make you feel like man. I'm resilient and I can take on the world. Whatever didn't kill you made you lean on Christ. And when you lean on Christ, you're free. The thing is, it may be that if it's a person who's afflicting you, well, that person may well be a wicked person, someone who's enslaved in sin and spirit some way, shape or the other. But you don't go there. And this may even generate in you, to almost your surprise when you're free, some pity and some compassion for the person who's afflicting you. It's a remarkable thing, but Christians have been known for this for a very long time. To have pity on Their enemies, because Christ died for us when we were his enemies. Rejoice in your trials. And then we rejoice at the end of our trials. That's the classic example. In the Old Testament, the Israelites have been rescued miraculously through the Red Sea, right? So they come through the Red Sea, and the first thing they do when they get to the other side is like. I mean, they can't believe it, right? So. But there they are. And the first thing they do is they just gather together. They just sing and sing and sing. They just sing. There will be a time to really sing. Yeah. I mean, every week we reflect on the end of our greatest trial that we know the judgment that we deserve for our sin, which was endured by Christ for our sakes. And that's why we sing. We sing of our Redeemer because of the good news of the gospel, of what he's done for us. We sing. We do that. We look at the love of Christ and we sing. And so, friends, let me just say that one day all the trials that we experience are going to be over, because they're just for a little while. And their purposes are all going to be accomplished. And then all God's people will be together and will be singing. What wondrous love is this, O my soul what wondrous love is this that caused the Lord of Bliss to bear the dreadful curse for my soul to God and to the Lamb I will sing To God and to the Lamb who is the great I am While millions join the theme I will sing and when from death I'm free I will sing on and when from death I'm free I'll sing and joyful be and through eternity I'll sing on I'll sing on and through eternity we will sing on let's pray.