Good morning. You can turn with me to one Peter. This morning we're going to be looking again at this letter written by Peter the Apostle, a messenger of Jesus Christ who accompanied Jesus throughout his earthly ministry. This message he brings is from Jesus, and so it comes with the authority of Jesus. The message that he brings is of Jesus. It is a message concerning him. He is always at the center. And Peter is writing to a group of people he calls the elect exiles chosen by God, secure in him those who are not of this world even as they live in it. In other words, he's writing to us. He's writing to Christians. And last week we began to look together at the main body of the letter. It's thick and a bit meaty and full. Each sentence is jam packed with thoughts that invite reflection and conversation. You just have to read the letters in the Bible slowly. And as we've slowed down and began to pour over it, we came across a word last week. The word was hope. The Bible, of course, talks about hope quite a bit. It's part of the APostle Paul's big three of faith, hope and love. And in the Scriptures, hope refers to a trust, a confident expectation and assurance that's grounded in God's past actions and looks to his future, promises people. Peter describes here in his letter the nature of hope as living. And he proclaims that the Lord God is the author of this living hope and that it's the work of God that makes our coming into possession of this living hope even possible. Today, as we continue to work through Peter's letter, we'll encounter a new word. And that word is inheritance. And we're going to take a look at the nature of the inheritance that this inheritance is guaranteed and how we might obtain such an inheritance. So hear the word of the Lord this morning I'm going to begin at verse three, but we're going to be looking at verses four and five. Hear the word of God. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time, this is the word of the Lord this morning. Inheritance. You have been born again to a living hope. Then he goes on, he says, and born again to an inheritance. The idea of an inheritance, of course, is Not a foreign idea. Most of us think of an inheritance as something you receive. Once a relative is dead. You receive some money or maybe some possessions of theirs. In the Scriptures, though, the inheritance that is described for God's people is unique in that the giver of the inheritance is God, and so is living. We have a living giver of this inheritance that is promised. In the Old Testament, the inheritance that God gave to his people was the land. It was the promised land that was their inheritance. Peter, however, in his letter, is describing an inheritance that's greater than the physical land of Israel. The writer of the letter to the Hebrews describes this inheritance that Peter is talking about as a heavenly country or a heavenly city, a new Jerusalem. Peter characterizes for us this country or this city, this inheritance of the Christian in three ways, three words. The first word that he speaks to us is he says that this inheritance is imperishable. Imperishable. Now, we, of course, are familiar with the idea of perishable goods. We know what that generally means. Perishable goods have a short shelf life. They are susceptible to spoiling, and they require some specific handling to try to maximize their life. You open up certain cans of things, and then it's very good to put them in the refrigerator, for example, or they may not last very long or taste very good. So we know what it means for something to be perishable. It's just that the Bible says that all flesh and all people, that's all of us, are perishable, that our shelf life on earth is short 80 years or so. And we know we're susceptible to spoiling. I don't mean like you're spoiling your child. I mean like we're susceptible to physical spoiling, mental spoiling, emotional spoiling. It doesn't take much for us to start to break down. And we have entire industries that have sprung up to try to tell you what kind of specific handling you need in terms of the food you eat, the exercise you do, the medical attention that's required in order for you to maximize your shelf life. They don't characterize it like that, but that's really what it is. It's just trying to maximize your shelf life. We are perishable goods. The scripture says that we are jars of clay. We're like grass or like the flower of the field, but not our inheritance. In his first letter to Timothy, the Apostle Peter or Paul describes God himself as immortal. It's the same Greek word that Peter uses here to describe our inheritance. If something is imperishable it is immortal. It's going to last forever. Peter, when Jesus was walking on the earth, he had been listening to him speak, and he heard Jesus speak about treasure. And Jesus said this. He said, don't lay up for yourselves treasures on earth and where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. If you merely treasure that which is perishable in life, then you perish with your treasure. He who dies with the most toys dies. That's it. But if your heart is turned toward the imperishable treasure, the inheritance, eternal life in the heavenly country in relationship with God, then we can rest assured as Christians that though we die, yet we shall live, that we too will be raised up, imperishable. So that's the first word that Peter uses to describe our inheritance, that it's. That it's imperishable. Perishable goods being given an imperishable inheritance. And then he says that the second word he uses is the word undefiled. Undefiled sin. Breaking God's law, doing what he tells us not to do, not doing the things that he calls us to do. Sin has infected everything. You don't think about the air that you breathe, but we're all breathing it right now. And sin, sort of like that, it's just kind of in the air. It's so much. It's so pervasive, it infects everything. And we know in our hearts that everything we do is. Is often defiled in some way by. By sin. And sometimes we don't even see it. But, but, but it often is, maybe always. In other words, we. We don't do what we ought to do. We know that our motivations are often mixed up with our pride or our anxieties or our fears if we really explore them. Even our best actions aren't perfect in the same way that Christs are perfect, because we might do a good action and then sort of feel a little proud when somebody says, hey, that was a really nice thing you did, or a good thing that you said, or whatever. We know this as Christians. We're rightly hesitant to, like, boast about anything about our accomplishments or our acts of service because of this fact. Everything we know is sort of defiled in some way by just the sinfulness of the world. And, and we know in our own hearts we're still wrestling with all that to be undefiled means to not have any impurity at all. There is only holiness and only perfect righteousness. There is no violation, not even a tiny violation in word, thought or deed of God's word, His perfect standard. Peter is declaring that in the heavenly country that in our inheritance, our inheritance, that, that inheritance is, is undefiled. In other words, it will. It's not even touched. It's not even touched by sin, sorrow or shame. It's not touched by any of those things. It is a place where the righteousness and holiness of God, his pure light, is present always and only. And so when we go to receive this inheritance, we too will be made fully pure so that we can actually walk in a place where there's no sin, sorrow or shame that's not touched by it. There will be no vestige of sin that will remain in us as Christians when we arrive at God's holy land. He says our inheritance is like that. It's undefiled, it's imperishable. It doesn't spoil. There's no shelf life on it. It goes on and on and on. And it is also undefiled. It's perfectly holy and righteous. And then the third word Peter uses to describe our inheritance is the word unfading. So much in our world fades away, even the good gifts that we love. In my car, it's a car. My sister, when she got married, gave Naomi her old car because they didn't need it anymore. So I drive it around mostly because the air conditioning works. And, and in this car, if you ever travel in it, the question of any visitor to this vehicle is always. They look at this thing that sits on the dash and they're like, what is that? And what that is? It has a name. That non identifiable stuffed creature which has the name Pop Tart was a. Was a gift that was given to my sister by her brothers when she was like four. And we weren't always the nicest of brothers. So a gift from all the older brothers was like this cherished thing. And my sister kept it all the way through her childhood, all the way into college. She kept it in her corner. And now all that's left of this creature is the tail sort of is like worn out and that. All of the sort of coloring it's kind of moved from. It was like a light green combination of a lizard and a cat. I mean, whatever, but it is sort of all the, all of it's just kind of the colors going out of it. It's fading. The event Itself, which was a kindness shown to her, is an event that now was a long time ago. To be fading is not really the same as to be perishable, which has the idea of kind of a concrete end. Fading is like a slower process. Youth fades, work, life. Those who retire have probably seen this by now. It starts to become like a distant memory. Maybe thankfully or not, but it starts to fade. The energy required to build a home or to build a life or to build a family like that begins to fade. Those events that you remember when your kids were young, but the memories start to. You don't remember it clearly. It's why all these older husbands and wives always argue whether the event occurred on Tuesday or Wednesday. It's like it's all fading. One's dreams and aspirations, they fade. Life itself fades into shadow. One of the hymns that we sometimes sing picks up this theme. It's the hymn My Faith Looks up to Thee. And it has this verse, it goes, that captures what we're talking about. When ends life's transient dream. When death's cold sullen stream Shall o' er me roll, blessed Savior. Then in love, fear and distrust remove. Bear me safe above a ransomed soul. A transient dream fading life. But nothing about our inheritance is fading. The heavenly country is a place of everything becoming more and more alive. More clarity. Never a fading memory. Never a fading anything. More clarity instead of a fading reality. We know reality like we've never seen before. We become more and more real than ever before as we breathe in the air of the heavenly country. You see, Peter wants the Christians to know that they have an inheritance. And it's an inheritance that's imperishable, and it's one that's undefiled, and it's one that's unfading. It's a beautiful picture. But Peter isn't done. He wants these Christians to know that this inheritance is guaranteed. It cannot be lost. And so he declares for us how we can be assured that this inheritance will be there waiting for us. He describes the inheritance here as kept in heaven for you who by God's power, are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed at the last time. Kept in heaven for you, Guarded. What kind of things do you have that you keep and guard? Think about that for a moment. What are the. What are the things that you keep and guard? What's important to you? What's. What's special? We tend to keep and guard things that are. That are personally special to us. They have some sentimental value. For example, or maybe we keep and guard things that are valuable in and of themselves. We have some valuable that we're keeping and guarding. Or maybe we are keep and guard objects that we're. We are apt to be stolen. So we do something to protect them. We lock a door or we put up one of those signs that say this place is being monitored by some security company somewhere to try to detract those who might steal our important things. Try to put these things in a safe place. They are guarded, they are kept. That is important to you? Well, Peter points out that the inheritance that we have in Christ is something which is kept. It's guarded, it's important. Peter tells us about this. He says it's an inheritance that is kept in heaven for you. In other words, it's kept in heaven. It's not here. What that means practically is who can steal it from us? I mean, anything that we keep or guard here can be stolen, but who can steal an inheritance that is in heaven kept? Anything on earth can be taken through war, through theft, but who can take something that's kept in heaven? And then he goes on, he says it's kept in heaven for you. It's personal. You know, as Christians, the scriptures say that through faith in Christ and His atoning sacrifice for us, we are made into children of God. And so we enjoy as children of God, the affection, the care, the love of our Heavenly Father who delights to give us this inheritance that we've been talking about. As Paul says to the Church in Rome, if we are children, then we're heirs, heirs of God, fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with Him. We're his children as Christians, he keeps and guards our inheritance. Happily for us, it's there kept by him, out of the reach of the enemy. He's waiting to give it to you. Peter continues, who by God's power are being guarded through faith. So not only is the inheritance being kept, you are being kept as Christians, you are being guarded by God's power, it says, not your own strength. God is protecting us from unbelief because like a father who has compassion on his children, he like knows that we are weak, that we're apt to give in to our anxieties and our doubts and our fears and all of that. So he grows our faith. Over the course of our life, he guards our faith. He. He's doing that. He's at work in us, in you. So Peter declares, by God's power, we are being Guarded through faith. Faith is that great gift of God, and it is the means he uses to guard our lives until we arrive at our heavenly home. He guards our faith by his power. How does he do that? Well, primarily, the primary way he does this is by sending His Holy Spirit to be the guard and keeper of our hearts. The apostle Paul says it like this in Ephesians 1. He says, in him we have obtained an inheritance. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance. And until we take possession of it, to the praise of his glory, the Holy Spirit is at work in us as Christians, reminding us of who we are, where we're going, guarding us throughout our lives here, protecting our faith all the way to death until we obtain our inheritance, which our loving Heavenly Father is looking forward to giving to you and to me. The Holy Spirit's work in guarding our faith and helping us keep our eyes on Christ is of great help to you, brothers and sisters, especially when those of you or those of us suffer disappointment or struggle in life. In fact, much of the value of trouble is that the Lord uses it to get us to think about eternal things. That's one of the great functions of trouble in your life, is that it causes you to think about eternal things, about the inheritance we have waiting for us. John Calvin, in his little book on the Christian life, which is little compared to the big Book, says it like this. In whatever trouble comes to us, we should always set our eyes on God's purpose and to train us to think little of this present life and inspire us to think more about the future life. For God knows well that we are greatly inclined to love this world by our natural instinct. Thus, he uses the best means to draw us back and shake us from our slumber so that we don't become entirely stuck in in the mire of our love for the world. He guards us. Spirit is at work in us. God's power. We're being guarded through faith. Peter adds a phrase here. He says we're guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. Isn't that an interesting phrase? Salvation that is coming later. Wait a second. I said a prayer, I walked the dial and I was saved. Isn't that it? Isn't salvation something that's just simply something that you already are? And what's he talking about? Well, in the Old Testament, salvation was talked about like this all the time. It was always Tied to the past event, right, the big event, saved through from Egypt through the Red Sea. And then they would talk about being a saved people in the wilderness, their present reality or when they were in exile, they would talk about that. And then they'd always have this future possession in mind, save people going to. To the. The kind of completion of their salvation, entering into the promised land. Similarly, our salvation isn't simply what happened in the past. Our salvation isn't simply only the cross. And that time when we came to Christ by faith, that's not the only salvation, the place of salvation. Salvation is something which is presently happening. We are working out our salvation in fear and trembling. So it's something which is growing. Our salvation is growing. But our salvation is also something that we're looking forward to. We're going somewhere, we're heading home. In the last time, as Peter mentions here, when our salvation is ready to be revealed, we will be fully and truly saved. You will be saved from sin in a way that you don't know now, because you won't ever sin again. Sin will have no impact on you. You'll be saved from sorrows you experience now because there will be no more sorrow. You'll be saved from death itself because you will never die. You will always be with the Lord. Sin's penalty, power and presence will be forever gone. And at that time which we look forward to, salvation will truly be revealed. As Peter once mentions here, this salvation is the fullest expression. In its fullest expression is, is, is waiting for us, our inheritance, the imperishable, undefiled and unfading life, the saved life in the imperishable, undefiled and unfading kingdom of God, ruled by, under and being under our imperishable, undefiled and unfading king. All of this is so secure. It is guaranteed to those who belong to Christ. I hope when you hear about a kingdom that God has planned for you and is holding in his hand now to give to you for all eternity, that nothing would excite you more than that thrill you to know that the sorrows you experience now are going to be gone. That the troubles that you have to work through now, day in and day out, will be no more. That the sin that you wrestle with each and every moment and wish would go away is going away. That the life that fades will fade no more. That there will only be growth and joy and peace and light and life and righteousness and holiness and being with God forever. And that's being held in God's Hand for you. Well, how do we obtain this inheritance? Peter's phrase through faith is the key here. The person without faith will never obtain the inheritance, will never know what I just talked about. Well, how can one obtain this inheritance? Only through faith in Christ. To receive this inheritance, we must repent and and believe the good news of the Gospel. The Gospel declares that as sinners we deserve death. The Gospel declares that a just God must punish sin. And so the judgment of God and the wrath of God are real things that every person in this world must deal with. All people will stand before the judgment seat of God. That's the Gospel. And the Gospel declares that there is nothing that you and I can do about that on our own. That we will never be good enough for heaven. That because we are defiled by sin, everything will always be marred, it will never be perfect. Our works are defiled. They are not good enough. You cannot earn your way into God's presence in his heavenly kingdom. And the Gospel says that out of love for us that we did not deserve. Out of love for us that we did not deserve. God sent his only Son into the world to be the atoning sacrifice for our sins. In other words, he took our sin, for which we deserve the penalty, on his shoulders. And so he bore the wrath of God against sin for you. And the Gospel declares that all who repent of their sins, who hate and forsake their sins, and believe in Christ, who trust God for their salvation, in Christ, who follow Jesus, will they have eternal life and inheritance as a gift? If you do not know him, if you do not entrust your life to his hands, there is no inheritance. You're still dead in your sins and God's justice, His judgment for sin, still hangs over your head. And the time is short before you face Him. Your shelf life is running out. Your perishable goods. Don't, don't stay. If you're here this morning and you're in that space, do not stay in that place of unrepentance. Christ's grace is freely given to all who would receive it. But for those who have obtained that inheritance through faith in Christ, for the Christian, I want you to hear the words of the Apostle Paul this morning as you walk through this current, perishable, defiled, fading world life. This is what Paul says, that we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day from. For this light, momentary affliction is preparing us for an eternal weight of glory beyond all comprehension, all comparison. As we look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal. Never lose heart. Keep your eyes on the inheritance on this unseen glory that is kept in heaven for you. Keep resting every day, every day. In the Gospel Christ died for your sins. You belong to Him. He has poured out every spiritual blessing on you. He has given you his spirit, His Holy Spirit to guard your faith and to always be pointing you to Christ. Remember you have an inheritance. It is imperishable, it is undefiled, it is unfading. Remember these things and then with gratitude live for God's glory each and every day. And when times are hard, be reminded, be glad that we're going to our heavenly home to our glorious inheritance kept by God's power for you so that you might be able to join the chorus When I tread the verge of Jordan and bid my anxious fears subside Death of death and hell's destruction Will land me safe on Canaan's side Songs of praises, Songs of praises I will ever give to thee I will ever give to thee Praise God for this inheritance Imperishable, undefiled, unfading, kept for you. Let's pray.