Good morning. You can turn with me this morning to Matthew, Chapter 13. Jesus is a treasure, and the gospel is a treasure, and the kingdom of God is a treasure. There is no greater treasure. This kingdom, Jesus has said, is like a mustard seed. It starts small, but it doesn't stay small forever. There will come a time when all you will see is the kingdom of God. Jesus says that the kingdom of God is like leaven, that it's hidden, but that it's powerfully at work, doing its purpose. And when the gospel of the kingdom, when the good news of Jesus Christ, the message that there is forgiveness of sin and eternal life for all who repent and believe in Him, when this is sown in the heart of a person, and the person believes, Jesus describes his or her life as a life of abundance, and fruitfulness, and productivity—a life that is alive. Not a dwindling life, but an expanding life in Christ.

We have together for some time now been considering this kind of teaching of Jesus about the kingdom. He would do this in parables. He would tell stories, and these parables had the effect of opening up the hearts of those who believed and growing them in the knowledge of God and their love for Christ. They also had the effect of closing up the hearts of others who would receive words—even words like I just spoke to you. They would receive words like that with a certain degree of either apathy or maybe even hostility. Well, Jesus finishes these parables, and He heads back to His hometown, a small place called Nazareth. This is where we pick up the story this morning. This is Matthew, Chapter 13, if you have your Bibles, and we're going to start at verse 53. So hear the word of the Lord:

"And when Jesus had finished these parables, He went away from there. And coming to His hometown, He taught them in their synagogue so that they were astonished. And they said, 'Where did this man get this wisdom and these mighty works? Is not this the carpenter's son? Is not His mother called Mary? And are not His brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas? And are not all of His sisters with us? Where then did this man get all these things?' And they took offense at Him. But Jesus said to them, 'A prophet is not without honor except in his hometown and in his own household.' And He did not do many mighty works there because of their unbelief."

Now, at that time, Herod the tetrarch heard about the fame of Jesus. And he said to his servants, "This is John the Baptist. He has been raised from the dead, and that is why these miraculous powers are at work in him." For Herod had seized John, bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife. Because John had been saying to him, "It is not lawful for you to have her." And though he wanted to put him to death, he feared the people because they held him to be a prophet. But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced before the company and pleased Herod so much that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask. And prompted by her mother, she said, "Give me the head of John the Baptist here on a platter." And the king was sorry, but because of his oaths and his guests, he commanded it to be given. He sent and had John beheaded in the prison, and his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother. His disciples came and took the body and buried it, and they went and told Jesus.

Now, when Jesus heard this, He withdrew from there in a boat to a desolate place by Himself. This is the word of the Lord this morning.

Jesus grew up in a small town where people knew people. If you grow up in the suburbs, it's a little bit of a foreign concept. I think sometimes it's hard to even know who your neighbors are. You see them sometimes mowing your lawn, you wave. But He grew up in a small town. My dad was from a place in western Pennsylvania called Scotdale. Neighbors all knew neighbors there. He's the only one of his whole family that ever left the town. Everybody sort of stays put, generation after generation. I am referred to there as "Donnie." It's the only place on the planet where you'll hear that name. The big event is the town Fireman's Fair, where they'll have a ferris wheel going and some games. There's a little bit of a downtown, there's the houses that sort of surround it. It was a manufacturing kind of place, and so a train runs through it. People knew what people did for a living. They know what people do for a living. They probably know more than what you just do for a living, and I always loved growing up and visiting that town.

Jesus is coming home. He's coming to His hometown, to Nazareth, and He's welcomed home and invited to speak. Actually, He's invited to speak. People have kind of heard that some things have been going on, that He's a really good speaker, and that He's been doing some incredible works. So the Bible says that He goes and teaches them in their synagogue. He had created a bit of a stir. The hometown boy had come, and they wanted to hear what He had to say and maybe see some of the things that He was known for doing. So He comes and does that. He teaches them in their synagogue. The Bible says He comes in and proclaims the things that He's been proclaiming, and it says that the reaction in the town paper was that they were astonished.

So it says the locals acknowledged Jesus's words and His works. They say, "Well, where did this man get this wisdom and these mighty works?" One can presume Jesus is teaching in the synagogue. He didn't modify His teaching for the hometown folk, so He's just teaching what He's always taught. He's teaching about the kingdom of heaven, that the kingdom of heaven is at hand and that He, Jesus, is the king. That all things sort of ultimately center on Him. And He's preaching this message in the synagogue, teaching about the need to repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.

Right here, the locals start getting hung up. They're not like the Pharisees, who were Jesus's enemies from earlier on, who were accusing Jesus of healing people by the power of the devil. They're just hung up by Jesus in this kind of proclamation that He's making in the synagogue. The Bible tells us why. The reason why is because they know His family. "Isn't this the carpenter's son? Isn't His mother called Mary and His brothers James, Joseph, Simon, Judas? Aren't all of His sisters with us?" He was the carpenter's son. At this point, it's very possible that Joseph may already have died, and that would have made Jesus the eldest in the household. He would have been responsible for taking care of the family. The person they saw when they saw Jesus was the person they watched grow up. They knew Jesus when He was five. They watched Him grow up in a carpenter shop for 20 some years. They would have been aware of the fact of His working with His dad, with Joseph, and the trade that He practiced. It is very possible that in their homes, they had furniture or pieces of work that were either done by or repaired by Jesus Himself. He was the carpenter's son. That's what He was to them. And of course, they knew Mary, and they knew Jesus's brothers and the sisters. They say they're all still around, so they probably married other men from the town. And so, there they all were together. They know them all. And here's what they know. They know that Jesus never went to school. He didn't go to rabbi school. He was never professionally trained. He was a carpenter.

Now, He's coming back and proclaiming this news that the kingdom has come and that He's the king. And so, they're like, "I knew you when you were five. Who are you to think that you're better than everybody else? You need to remember your place." When my Scotdale relatives heard that I had become a pastor, they were very glad. They were happy about that, proud of me. But they would probably have been less proud if I came to them and they invited me into their church, and I proclaimed to them that their eternal souls would be judged by me and so they needed to follow me. But this is what Jesus was saying to His neighbors, to His family. So they rejected Him in a much deeper sense. The scripture says they did not do many mighty works there because of their unbelief. They did not believe.

Well, maybe it's good to look at what did Jesus do with all that. Maybe we should consider what He didn't do. He didn't assert Himself or try to convince those who didn't believe that they should really try to think differently. He doesn't fly into a rage because He's God in the flesh and these people are seeing Him as a five-year-old. He doesn't get angry at them—anger at their pride or their unbelief. The Bible says that He just didn't do many mighty works there. He simply accepted the rejection. He received their rejection. He makes a summary comment: "A prophet is not without honor except in his hometown and in his own household." Family relations are less likely to acknowledge one has authority over them if they are familiar with them. Familiarity breeds contempt, we might say. It doesn't make it right, but it's a truism, what Jesus is saying.

So there's a couple things for us to think about here. First, just by way of application: First is just to see that seeing is not believing. Without the Lord's gracious

 work in our hearts, we will be proud. We will think that we know what is best. We will find some explanation as to why Jesus answers to us versus us answering to Jesus. Because if Christ is above us, if Jesus is above us, if this morning Jesus reigns, all of us are called to attend to Him. What that means is that we will have to change. We'll have to humble ourselves. That's what all the neighbors knew. They could hear Jesus speak, and they knew, "Well, what He's saying is true. That means that all of us have to follow the carpenter's son." Maybe someone here this morning is in that place. Maybe you're in a place this morning where Christ is calling you to repent and to believe, and you're just not sure because you know that if you go there, that would require change. And yes, it will. It requires change. Jesus will change your life. But the way He will change your life is He will give you life. So let me encourage you to come to Him.

The second thing here that we see is that faith is actually quite important. Jesus, as we read the Gospels, what we see is that He never did miracles just to impress people. Like somebody who would do magic tricks in front of a crowd or something like that, they garner some attention. When He healed people, He would often make this statement, which is sort of a remarkable statement. He'll say, "Your faith has made you well." When anybody with a brain who was watching what had just happened would see that Jesus actually made them well. But He would always say, "Your faith has made you well." What He's doing there is He's always emphasizing that the fruitful relationship with Christ is the one where we trust Him, where we put our faith in Him, and that He blesses in that when there is faith. So in the case of the people of Nazareth, He didn't do many mighty works there because they didn't believe. He wasn't just going to be a show-off. Faith is important.

Finally, I would say that we should not be discouraged. Let me encourage you: Don't be discouraged. If you're the Christian, I know some of you are this, you're the Christian in your family. The rest of the family isn't really believers. And so, you might be the Christian in your family, and those who aren't Christians either belittle your faith or aren't convinced. It is just true that one's family often has the hardest time hearing the gospel because it comes from someone they've known their entire life. You're the carpenter's kid. Remember that when you share the gospel and are rejected, in a way, you share in Christ's sufferings. For He was rejected by His own, by the people who knew Him when He was little. And pray for those in your family who don't know Jesus. Pray that the Lord would show mercy on them.

So we see Jesus in Nazareth here. He's rejected by His hometown. And then we're taken by Matthew from that place to the halls of power, where we're given an inside look at the perspective of the regional ruler in Jesus's time, a guy by the name of Herod. Now, if you're old enough, you will remember a time where this really was the conspiracy. Before there was conspiracy theory, there was conspiracy theory. The one that was big was that Elvis was still in the building—that Elvis was still alive. You might remember this. I remember people saying that, and that what he had done was because he was an informer for the government, he had faked his death so that he wouldn't be killed by the mob. So there were, of course, all the grainy photographs of people who might be Elvis in their 80s that would sort of show up. For a while, a small percentage of the American public believed, or wanted to believe—and maybe some of them are in this room—that this was true. I mean, they wanted to believe that Elvis still lived. And conspiracies like that, and made-up stuff, it's nothing new. We're leaving the scene of Nazareth, and we find ourselves in Herod's house or his palace. And Herod, with no real evidence at all to support any of his thinking, has come to a conclusion—something to explain this Jesus who he's hearing rumors about. The conspiracy, the thought that he comes up with, is that Herod has heard about Jesus, particularly His mighty works. And he's thinking to himself, "Who is this?" Now, back up just for a second. This is the Herod. It's a different Herod than the big Herod that you hear about every Christmas. The big Herod, Herod the Great—brutal, awful, awful guy—but he's dead. This is his son. This is little Herod. And little Herod really is little Herod in the sense that he's not as powerful, but he's as power-hungry. He's like his dad, but without as much ability. This Herod is the one that we encounter throughout Jesus's life and into His crucifixion. Herod was always thinking about himself. He always saw the entire world through his own eyes, his own perspective, so that everything sort of centered on what his actions were. There could be no other explanation besides somehow connected to him. This is how he handled Jesus, because Jesus couldn't just be Jesus operating separate from Herod. He had to have something to do with Herod because Herod is the center of the universe. This is what he comes up with. He comes up with the idea that Jesus is actually John the Baptist, who has risen from the dead to be some sort of haunting presence in Herod's life. He just came up with it. This is what he comes up with.

You might remember John. John was the greatest of all time, of all the prophets. He was the greatest prophet, Jesus said, ever. He was this wilderness preacher who would call people to repent of their sins, who would baptize them for repentance, and then who was preparing the way. He was saying, "There's somebody coming after me who you really need to pay attention to." And of course, he's pointing to Jesus. So this is John the Baptist. In the context of that, Herod has heard of John the Baptist because Herod murdered him. Well, the story is a little more complicated than that. John had confronted, in some public setting, I'm sure, had confronted Herod about his adulterous relationship with his brother's wife, a lady named Herodias. Most likely after that relationship began to try to make it all legal, Herod divorced his first wife, and Herodias divorced her husband Philip. The rulers at that time in Israel weren't exactly stellar examples of faithfulness to the law, and yet they were the leaders. So John said something about this, probably in a sermon out in the wilderness or to a bunch of people. Anyway, this gets back to Herod that John's saying this about him. Herod, it says here in our text this morning, was content. He seized John, bound him, and put him in prison. He wanted to put him to death, but he was content with just leaving him in jail to rot. Because sometimes, elsewhere in the Bible, we learn that Herod sometimes liked to listen to John himself. He kind of enjoyed hearing him talk, but other times not so much. But always, what he knew was that John was popular with the people. The people thought that he was a prophet, and so it would not be good press for him to just kill him out of line. Not good for the opinion polls. So he thought, "Well, out of sight, out of mind. Eventually, the people will forget about John. We'll just leave him in prison to rot." That's Herod. Now, his girlfriend or his new wife Herodias, she would like Jezebel before her in the Old Testament. She was a woman who was more powerful in some ways than her husband, and what she wanted was John to be dead. So what she does is, there's a birthday party. At the birthday party, everyone is—this story does not get into many kids' Bible storybooks. So there's this drunken party, everybody's drunk, and there's some inappropriate dancing by Herodias's daughter that thrills all the guys. There's this rash promise that he makes to this daughter of this wicked lady, and then an even more wicked keeping of that promise, which leads to John having his head cut off and then the head delivered on a plate to Herodias. I mean, it's something like gruesome and wicked and awful, right? The Bible just lays it out there. There it is. That's what happened. That's the world unleashed for just a moment—murderous, lustful, greedy. It's the things that people know are in there, but the Lord has restrained at all. But there are moments—moments in the Bible, moments in history—where it just all gets to sort of seep out so that we can all see this is what the world looks like unleashed. It's a picture of the kingdoms of the world, full of violence and noise and greed and lust and foolishness and selfishness and wickedness and murder.

The disciples of John respond to all of this. They do this by going and getting the body of John, and they bury the body. Then they go and they tell Jesus. Very likely, they tell Jesus probably with the mindset that they're trying to protect Him because they know that Jesus and John were close, and that means that Jesus is probably next. So they go and they tell Him what happened. This story teaches us that a confrontation, even in love, because John didn't hate Herod. He was calling him out. He wasn't trying to become Herod. He wasn't trying to become king himself. He was just saying, "What you're doing is wrong." A confrontation, even in love, won't always produce repentance. Sometimes

 what it will produce is hatred. Herod knew that John was right, and he hated him for it. So after Herod murders John, his conscience continues to bother him at some level. John kind of remains on his mind. But remember this: a confrontation, even in love, will not always produce repentance, and yet we are often called to confront sin and to call people to repent. John was faithful in that. In some ways, this story is the summation of the world's response to John's message because John's message more generally was that he was calling people to repent of their sin and to come to Christ. It's a picture for us of the world's likely response to the proclamation of the gospel. Throughout the world and throughout history, persecution and hatred, not gratitude and embrace, is the response of the world to the gospel. That is the more likely lot for the church. If our goal was just to feel good about ourselves by getting lots of converts, this would be very bad news. But if our goal is to be faithful servants of Christ who loved us, we just need to remember this: that John was sustained by God in his suffering all the way to the end. Now John dwells in peace, victorious as a good and faithful servant of the King. Jesus will do the same for you and for me. Jesus said, "Whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it." This story is meant to show brutality at its worst. In that moment, John found his life. He's the winner.

Let's talk about pride for a second. The view that "I am the center of the story" leads one to see life in a way that simply is not true. Instead of seeking to find out who this Jesus was and what He was calling people to do, what kind of miracles He was performing, why He was performing these kinds of miracles, instead of that kind of interest, Herod draws this conclusion: Jesus must be John's ghost. He just pulls that out of the air. Does Jesus define how things are? Does the scripture define reality? Or do we define reality based on what we can come up with? So much religion and spirituality that is out there is just doing what Herod does in this text, seeing the world as it is, maybe not understanding it totally, and so having to find an interpretation and interpreting it in a framework that a person has created to keep him or herself just at the center of the story. It comes out in things like sayings like, "My God would never do this or that thing," or the idea that everybody ends up going to heaven except maybe Hitler and a couple of his cronies, or the idea that simply having the idea that there's a God out there, but He has no real connection to Jesus, the one who reveals what God actually is like. Brothers and sisters, scripture alone presents us with the truth about how things are. It is scripture alone that teaches us the truth about God, about man, about our need for salvation, about Christ Himself, about life. The disciples of John come to Jesus and tell Him what happened. So how does Jesus respond? The Bible says that when Jesus heard this, He withdrew from there in a boat to a desolate place by Himself. It was Gethsemane before Gethsemane. It is a picture of the sorrows of Christ. John was His cousin. John proclaimed His birth while he was in the womb. John baptized Him. John was His friend. As we said, John was the greatest of the prophets, the greatest of the prophets, the greatest servant of His Father in heaven. He was the forerunner of the Christ. Jesus knew that John's death would have, in fact, brought to the fore that Jesus was next, that suffering was coming in an even deeper, deeper, and deeper way.

What was His approach? Well, whenever the Bible talks about Him going to a desolate place, He always does the same thing. It's that He might pray, that He might be with the Father. Here's what He doesn't do: no self-pity. When we go to desolate places, that's what we tend to do—feel bad about our life, feel bad about how could this have happened to me, that kind of thing. But not Jesus. When He goes to a desolate place, it's always to pray—the sorrows of Christ. It also shows the fact that He wanted to get away from all of that. It demonstrates again, and we're going to see that next week in particular, but just think that the deep compassion of Christ. Christ had compassion towards John's disciples, towards the family of John, sure, and then just towards His own people. Once again, He's confronted with the sadness of the fall, the sadness of seeing how cruel the world is, having to just walk through all of this. Then we see His boldness because Herod's actions and Herodias's wickedness would not deter Jesus from setting His face toward the cross. It was a reminder that that's where He was going, that John incident, but He knew what He was doing, and He set His face there. He didn't delay it for a second, didn't make Him rethink it. He set His face to the cross. He's not going to run away. He's going to head right towards Jerusalem. It shouldn't have been this way. I mean, His hometown should have rejoiced to see Jesus and been among the first people to follow Him. I mean, they should have been amazed, thrilled, excited, and said, "We are on your side." Herod, when he was called out, should have repented. Then he should have gone and found out who is this Jesus guy. Then he should have done what the wise men did at the very beginning of the story. He should have thrown his face down on the ground and bowed before Jesus and given Him gifts. That's what he should have done.

But Jesus willingly came into a world where what should happen rarely happens. Jesus willingly enters into that world—a world of sin and sorrow. He humbles Himself. Jesus, the Son of God, becomes a man. He humbles Himself and enters into this kind of cruelty and ugliness and rejection. The Westminster Larger Catechism, this kind of summary of Bible teaching, calls this the humiliation of Christ. The humiliation of Christ, it says this: it says that His humiliation consisted of Him being scorned and rejected by the world. Scorned and rejected, that He was born in a low condition. He wasn't born as the son of the Emperor. He was born to Mary. Joseph was His dad, a carpenter's son, what He was. That He was always having to conflict—and I can appreciate this—that it talks about this, that it conflicts with the indignities of the world. He deserved dignity. Everywhere He went, He should have been dignified. He had to deal with constant low views of Himself—the God who made everybody He was talking to has to go through the process of watching every person want to try to pat Him on the head and tell Him how low He is. He's willing to do that—the humiliation of Christ. What does that mean? Well, the Bible teaches that because He was willing to do that, the result of His humiliation was that our salvation was accomplished. There is no resurrection. There is no eternal life. There is no forgiveness of sin without Jesus. He humbled Himself for our sakes. He did that for you and for me. He humbled Himself for our sakes, going to the cross to bear our sins, that we might be saved from the judgment that we deserve. Christ humbled Himself that salvation might be possible. In fact, as you consider the humiliation of Christ, what comes into view is that it doesn't stay there. The exaltation, the glorification of Jesus, He conquers His and our enemies. He vanquishes death altogether. He's risen from the dead, not to haunt Herod, but to reign and rule over everything. He's risen from the dead. He's ruling and reigning even now, and one day He'll return to judge all men. Jesus's willingness to humble Himself, to suffer rejection and these things, was that we might be saved.

It also means that He's able to understand your troubles because most of the time the troubles that we experience—I mean, we're not being human—it's not like we're awesome. He's awesome, and everybody was talking to Him like this. But when we experience trouble, we experience it like sinners sinning against sinners. It's difficult. But Jesus understands all that. He understands our troubles. He can sympathize with our weakness because He's done more. He's done greater than what we have. He's suffered more than we've ever suffered. In addition, Jesus sets the example for how we should be when we suffer. Note that Jesus didn't come into the world and just clean out all the Herods and the Herodiases right away. Why? Because He's accomplishing greater things. He goes to the Father in prayer. The Lord is working in your sorrows and in your troubles. He's working in you. He's working in others. He's working in the world. He's accomplishing great things. So the Bible's call is always that in the midst of our suffering and struggle, what we're called to do is to endure. Scripture says, "Consider Him who endured from sinners such hostility against Himself so that you may not grow weary or fainthearted." Jesus calls us to this difficult way. Friends, the Apostle Paul writes that we ought to have this mind among ourselves, which was in Christ, who though He was in the form of God, He did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. But He emptied Himself. He took the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. Being found in human form, He humbled Himself. He became obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted Him and bestowed on Him the name

 that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus, every knee should bow in heaven, on earth, and under the earth, every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.

One day, all that is wrong will be made right. One day, we will see the One who was humiliated in His hometown, crucified by those in the halls of power, who grieved alone and pleads our cause before the Father. We will bow before Him, and as Christians, we will do that with such great joy. Oh, what a day. We will bow before Him. We will hold our hands up high. We will praise Him. Hail the hometown hero, hail the Savior of sinners, hail the conqueror of evil, hail the victor over death, hail our oldest brother, hail our dearest friend, hail Jesus our King. Let's pray.

Father in heaven, we are so grateful for the salvation you brought to us through Jesus, your Son. Lord Jesus, we're grateful for your willingness to humble yourself for our sakes, that we might live and that we might know you. Holy Spirit, we pray that you would help us to endure when we need to endure, to speak the truth when we need to speak the truth, and help us always to keep our hearts and minds fixed on Jesus our Lord. It's in His name that we pray. Amen.