"May the words of my mouth and the meditation of our hearts be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, our rock and our redeemer. Amen.

My father is a man of many sayings, and one that has always stuck with me, as many of his have, is this one: there are two things that money can't buy, true love and homegrown tomatoes. Now he usually said that in years in which his tomato plants, his beloved tomato plants, actually produced a healthy crop, which was not every year. And the reason that this was rare, as anyone who grows tomatoes knows, is that despite being billed as, you know, one of the easiest plants to grow in the garden that you can actually eat, they still take exactly the right conditions to flourish. They take good soil, the correct amount of sunlight at the right time of day, and, of course, consistent rainfall or watering. And, of course, you know, this is not counting things like rabbits or deer. You know, if those come along, then the tomato plants are about the first thing to go. My father's saying about true love and homegrown tomatoes had a lot to do with the fact that, like a good marriage, a crop of tomatoes requires the right conditions and the right care. 

During my early years, we lived ways outside town, and it could be hard to get a crop to sprout. There were rocks everywhere. You put a shovel in, and as likely as not, the soil was either Virginia red clay, which requires, you know, mixing with manure to become really fertile, or else it was the waterlogged soil of the floodplain that our house was just above. Even a supposedly simple crop like tomatoes involved care and attention and the right conditions. This is the metaphor that Jesus employed in one of his most well-known parables, which, with its interpretation, forms our text this morning. So please turn with me to Matthew, chapter 13, starting at verse one:

"That same day, Jesus went out of the house and sat beside the sea. And great crowds gathered about him, so that he got into a boat and sat down. And the whole crowd stood on the beach. And he told them many things in parables, saying: 'A sower went out to sow. And as he sowed, some seeds fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured them. Other seeds fell on rocky ground, where they did not have much soil, and immediately they sprang up, since they had no depth of soil. But when the sun rose, they were scorched, and since they had no root, they withered away. Other seeds fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked them. Other seeds fell on good soil and produced grain, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. He who has ears, let him hear.'"

Now let's jump down and look at verse 18:

"Hear then the parable of the sower: when anyone hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown along the path. As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. Yet he has no root in himself but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away. As for what was sown among the thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it proves unfruitful. As for what was sown on good soil, this is the one who hears the word and understands it. He indeed bears fruit and yields, in one case a hundredfold, in another sixty, and in another thirty. This is the word of the Lord this morning."

As we are going through Matthew, chapter 13, you will notice that we are not going in order, and this is because we have parables and their explanations that are broken up with explanations not just of the parables themselves, but of the purpose of parables, which is what Pastor Don preached on last week. But we have this context of this discourse, this series of sermons and sayings that Jesus is giving from this boat. He's giving from this boat, speaking in parables so that those who he wants to understand will understand, and those who are not supposed to understand will not understand. That is the purpose of the parables. So to understand what's going on in this parable, we need to remember that parables are intended to aid the understanding of those who are meant to understand. In speaking in this manner, Jesus means for his message to be understood by those it's intended for, and not understood by those who are not intended to understand it. Like the farmer sowing his seeds, Jesus knows that his words will find their way into many ears and have different effects.

The second thing we need to remember has to do with farming. Farming in Jesus' day in the Mediterranean region of the first century was labor-intensive and inefficient. A farmer would till a field with a simple ox-drawn plow and scatter his seed over the field, known as broadcasting, a bit like a modern grass seed dispenser. Once this was done, the farmer would then lightly cover the scattered field by turning the soil a second time. More than any other profession in the ancient world, farming was imprecise, labor-intensive, and dependent on the fickleness of the weather for success. It was also essential. It was the lifeblood of a community. Without farming, there is no food. A bad harvest means starvation not just for the farmer but for all of his neighbors. And the ancient Hebrew farmer had one further element in his process: this was faith in the God of his fathers, the Lord who had given him his land and who made the earth. By faith, the farmer would bring the first fruits to the temple. By faith, he would rest on the Sabbath. By faith, he refused to participate in the superstitious and blasphemous rites of the fertility gods of Canaan. The sower in Jesus' parable is just such a man. He broadcasts his seed over the field, and it lands in different places, each with unique characteristics. And only in the providence of God could there be a harvest. And this, Jesus says, is what the kingdom of heaven is like. The word of the gospel goes forth and reaches not just individuals but peoples, societies, ethnic, and geographic groups, families, and churches. Each either prepared to receive the gospel or not.

So what kinds of soil are there? Well, says Jesus, some seed lands on the path and doesn't do anything. It just lies on the surface, exposed to the elements. No place to grow because the soil of a dirt path is hard. And even if it isn't hard, it's soon going to be turned up by the various people or animals that are walking on it. It's close-packed, hardened by road makers, and then by the footsteps of people and animals. Maybe by chance, it does get pushed under, sprouts a little bit, but don't worry, a passing goat or bird is going to ensure that it doesn't get very far. This is the hard heart. Just like the path is deadened by the passage of people and animals so that no life can sprout, so the hardened heart is dead to the message of the kingdom. And whole communities can be hard-hearted and numb to the gospel.

Several years ago, I was living in the Boston area. And if you know anything about the history of the church in America, you know that the Boston area has a rich history, a rich Christian history. And so it's saddening to see the spiritual decline of that region, a region founded on Puritan principles by godly men and women, and which had continual renewals. The American missions movement with men and women like Adoniram and Ann Judson started there. They took the word across the globe, across the country. The great Christian heritage is there for all to see. It's in the names of streets, and it's one of the least churched areas in the country. It's one of the hardest areas in this country in which to minister. You see, the hard heart rejects the gospel because it is indifferent. It's hostile to Jesus and those who follow him. The ear is here, but the message goes in one ear and out the other, and it doesn't register with what's in between. The hard heart says, "I've heard it all before. Oh yeah, I've heard it all before." The heart says, "I've heard it all before. Oh yeah, that stuff." And that's especially true if the hard heart is seated in the pew of a church. The gospel is heard intellectually, but the message never sinks in. The lights are on, but nobody's home. The prophet Isaiah writes, "This people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me." And so the evil one snatches up the seed of the gospel before it can take root.

Then there's the rocky soil. The seed lands, and it sprouts very quickly. Shoots are springing up. It looks like there's going to be a harvest maybe in a few months. Then comes the drought. Then comes the sunshine. And the young shoots start to shrivel up and turn brown because their roots have nowhere to expand. They put out shoots, but that's partly because they can't put down roots. And then along comes a storm, and what's left is washed away, leaving bare earth and rock once again. Unlike the soil of the path, the rocky heart isn't immediately hard. It's receptive, in fact. The person hears the word and is soon talking the talk. The grace of God, the beauty of scripture, the love of Jesus, it looks like it's all there. And yet the disciples

hip only ever gets so far. And then trouble comes. Maybe it's hard providence that seems to bring God's goodness into question. Maybe it's pressure at work or from family. Maybe it's just the allure of the next new thing. Whatever it is, the initial attraction of the gospel loses its luster amid the realities of life in a fallen world. And so the rocky heart proves fickle. How many times have we seen this? A person, say a celebrity, comes to embrace Jesus, and at first it looks like the person is learning, maybe even calling out fashionable cultural sins. But then the headlines go away, or the criticisms roll in. And then the person moves on to the next phase of their career. A few years later, the recording artist or actor or whoever is now done with that born-again phase of their career. The rocky heart, like the rocky soil, has a problem. Its faith is a mile wide and an inch deep. The disciplines of steadfastness and perseverance have never developed. They've never developed because the person is not really interested in depth but in a quest for ever-diminishing emotional highs and mountaintop spiritual experiences. Once the novelty wears off and the real life of costly discipleship sets in, the rocky heart is looking for the next big thing.

Then there are the weeds, the thorns. Here the seed is falling on soil that is fertile. In fact, it's a little too fertile because it's crowded. The seed sprouts and starts putting out roots, but so do other plants. I remember growing up that my mother would keep certain plants like mint in their own flower pots because if let out into the rest of the flower bed, they would choke out any other plants she was trying to plant. So best to keep those contained. The weed-ridden heart is like this. It accepts the gospel, but it also accepts other things. C.S. Lewis, in his "Screwtape Letters," called this the trap of "Christianity and." Screwtape, who is an older devil giving advice on how to tempt Christians away from the faith, says, "What we want, if men become Christians at all, is to keep them in the state of mind I call 'Christianity and.' You know, Christianity and the crisis. Christianity and the new psychology. Christianity and the new order. Christianity and faith healing. Christianity and psychical research. Christianity and vegetarianism. Christianity and spelling reform. If they must be Christians, let them at least be Christians with a difference." The problem is that the "and" is always going to take over. You can't have a Christ-plus religion. Either we have a commitment to Christ and his word above everything, or other things creep in and make a shipwreck of our faith. Any other cause, however worthy, must ultimately be brought under the lordship of Jesus. Jesus is not a means to an end. He is the Lord. When we make him a means to an end, very soon the Jesus we worship is not the Jesus of scripture. Look at all the different Jesuses that have been worshipped over the last century: Jesus the socialist, Jesus the anti-communist, Jesus the hippie, Jesus the anti-war activist. All of these are projections of human aspirations. None of them are the Lord who said, "My kingdom is not of this world." You see, the weed-ridden heart is not content with Christ alone. We just sang this: "In Christ alone." In Christ alone, our hope is found. The weed-ridden heart allows other things to crowd in and therefore crowd out the person of Jesus. The gospel may be nice, but it doesn't help me in the hustle. It doesn't solve my problems or those of the world. Jesus himself says, "You can't serve two masters." So which is it going to be?

So, we have poor soil, dead soil, shallow soil, and crowded soil. What does good soil look like? Well, unlike the path, good soil is soft and full of nutrients. Unlike the rocky soil, it has room for deep roots. Unlike the weed-ridden soil, it is uncluttered by other plants. Good soil will be well-watered and have plenty of sunlight that allows strong and hearty plants to thrive. In the spiritual life, it's like the description of the blessed man in Psalm 1: "His delight is in the law of the Lord, and on this law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers." There's a picture of a flourishing spiritual life. The righteous man delights in God's law and meditates on it day and night, and so becomes a fruitful tree. Good soil for spiritual growth. It's good soil that receives the word of the gospel, and that gospel takes root. And it's cultivated through prayer, worship, attentiveness to, and delight in God's word. Of course, the trouble is, if we're honest, sometimes we find ourselves looking like the rocky soil, or the weed-ridden soil, or even the hard soil, more so than the good soil. We can see ourselves mirrored in this passage. And yet, Jesus' point is altogether different. It's not about "What kind of soil am I?" though certainly that's one application. Jesus isn't just talking about individuals, my own spiritual walk. He's talking about the kingdom of heaven. The farmer who sows the seed is an evangelist. And the way that he's sowing, if we take a look at it, seems rather inefficient in our time. I mean, why broadcast this seed when so much of it is going to come to nothing? It's a waste. Why not be more intentional? Why not be more careful? Well, the point of the parable seems to be this: we don't know where the good soil is. It's not where we expect to find it. Certainly in Jesus' ministry, this is true. The learned and the religious turned deaf ears and hard hearts toward him and his word, while tax collectors, sinners, Samaritans, and even Gentiles all believed in him. Why? Because that's where the good soil was. That's where the word sunk in and produced a good crop.

You see, good soil is not produced by human effort. Good soil is prepared by God in advance. Just as a farmer turns over the soil of his field with a plow and fertilizes it, the difference is that while God is the one who brings the harvest, we are the ones who are commanded to broadcast the seed of the gospel. We're not the ones who plow. We're not the ones who prepare, at least not ultimately. We're the ones who are called to simply sow the seed. As laborers in God's field, it isn't usually for us to know what the results of our work are going to be. Paul put it like this in 1 Corinthians, chapter 3: "I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God gives the growth. He who plants and he who waters are one, and each will receive his wages according to his labor, for we are God's fellow workers. We are God's field, God's building." We are God's fellow workers. We are called to faithfulness because we don't know where God is going to bring the harvest.

You see, in the 21st century, our temptation is to try and work out a formula. Modern farmers have studies done, experiment with fertilizers, call in expert consultants, do all sorts of analysis, including analyzing the market to see what I should grow. And in the church, we like our church growth strategies, our five-year plans. We like to look at the demographics of an area, find marketing techniques, and implement programs. And none of these things are wrong in and of themselves, but it's the Lord who provides the growth. Unless the Lord builds the house, the laborers labor in vain. The success of the gospel has little to do with skill or success as evangelists, because the Lord doesn't call us to success. The Lord calls us to faithful obedience, and obedience looks like spreading the word indiscriminately and inefficiently. Broadcasting the seed doesn't target markets or demographics. It doesn't have a business strategy or a five-year plan. From the perspective of the techniques of the world, it's foolish. And that's exactly what Paul says: "God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise." Because what is this gospel that we're called to share? It's the cross. Jesus and him crucified. The word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. The message and the methods are foolish in the eyes of the world because they're being used by God to shame the wise of this world.

Look at Paul himself. He's an educated man, spoke multiple languages. He was a Pharisee, a Roman citizen, one who was able to talk with kings and emperors and reason with the philosophers of Athens. And what did he preach? The cross and the resurrection, a stumbling block to the Jews and foolishness to the Greeks. And what did he receive for it? Beatings, stonings, shipwreck, robbery, and eventually death. Not very efficient from a marketing perspective. Certainly, you're not going to win over investors with that strategy. And here's his sales pitch in case there were any doubts: "I decided," says Paul, "to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling, and my speech and my message were not implausible words of wisdom." Is that how to win friends and influence people? Preaching foolishness? Knowing nothing? Challenging the wisdom of the world? Particularly when we're familiar with Paul because he was hardly a slouch in the rhetoric department, hardly uneducated

, able to debate with the best of them. So why does he do this? Because it's his calling, and it's ours, to preach this foolish gospel. Paul says, "My speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, so that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God." God chooses this foolish message through foolish means so that our faith will not be in wise and sophisticated human arguments or in human strategies or techniques, but in God's power.

You see, the soil that God has prepared isn't always the soil that we would choose, certainly not the soil that we would expect. The people he calls aren't always the people we would want to be associated with. Take, for example, a man named Tom. He grew up in the South, and in his late teens and early twenties, he became a white supremacist terrorist working closely with the KKK. And he was sent to prison for attempting to bomb the home of a Jewish businessman. And then he tried to escape, was nearly killed twice, and found himself in solitary confinement at rock bottom, looking for truth, and so he started reading the gospels. Here's what he writes: "As I read the gospels in my prison cell, my eyes were opened in a way that went beyond simply understanding the words on the page. As the true meaning of God's word became clearer, so did its relevance to my life. I had been blind to spiritual reality all my life and was now beginning to see. The next morning I awoke with a deep hunger for scripture and a desire to pray and to live for God. As I read the Bible daily, a whole new world opened up to me, and I couldn't get enough. Early on, God delivered me from hate, and I began to grow in love for others. Friendships developed with black inmates and others who were very different from me, including the FBI agent who had orchestrated my initial capture, as well as the Jewish lawyer who helped him." What a testimony. From there, Thomas Terrence became involved in a prison Bible study, attended seminary, and after prison, he became a pastor and eventually the president of the C.S. Lewis Institute, serving the kingdom faithfully and making disciples. The soil that God chooses is not always the soil that we would expect. Or take Rosaria, a lesbian feminist professor of English at Syracuse University, who believed that Christianity was a patriarchal tool designed for the purpose of oppressing sexual minorities. After writing an article attacking the Christian right and their activities in her town, she received a letter from the local Reformed Presbyterian pastor, which she couldn't straightforwardly categorize as either fan mail or hate mail. Instead, it asked good questions and contained an invitation to dinner with him and his wife to discuss the Bible. The friendship that resulted was the beginning of her conversion to Christianity. Today, Rosaria Butterfield is a pastor's wife whose writings in defense of biblical truth have been an encouragement and a challenge to Christ's church to stand firm on the word of God and not capitulate to what she calls the lies of our anti-Christian age. Those are just two stories of how despite appearances, the good soil that produces a good crop is not always the obvious soil. We plant, we water, we spread the good word, but it is the Lord who gives the harvest. God's methods look foolish to the world because his ways are not our ways. His thoughts are not our thoughts. The people that God draws to himself through the faithful preaching of the word are not the obvious people, not the wise people, not the people we would choose. I mean, look at the disciples: fishermen, a tax collector, political zealots, ordinary men with nothing special about them except that Jesus called them and gave them the task by his spirit of making disciples of all nations. Paul writes, "God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God."

So what should we do with this as God's people? First, we need to remember that as God's people, we are also the foolish and the weak and the despised and the low of this world. If we have received God's word and believed it, then this is God's mercy on us. He is the one who prepared our hearts to hear and to receive the word. God prepared our hearts even when we were his enemies when we were resisting him. If God can save people like us, like me, then who are we to say who he will and won't save? We must share the gospel indiscriminately. We have received the mercy of the gospel, and so we are to extend that mercy to a world that desperately needs it. 

A second point here is that because God saves whom he will, we should give that gospel indiscriminately. In my own walk, my temptation has been to worry that if I say I'm a Christian and share the gospel with that friend or coworker, it might not be received well. Well, that's God's business. That's not what I'm called to. I'm called to simply share it. Simply preach Christ. I'm reminded of a story by the late Nabil Qureshi, who grew up in a Muslim family and later became a Christian, of how when he was in high school, one of his classmates shared the gospel with him. He said he was impressed not because he agreed, because it was going to be many years before he became a Christian, but because this classmate had the courage to talk to him about it. It showed that he cared about whether or not he was going to heaven. We can't control what kind of soil the gospel falls on. The results of our witness are not the important part. Our business is to be faithful farmers, faithful sowers of the word, sowing the seed of the word in the fields that God has entrusted to us here in this place, in this time. Whether that's our families, our workplaces, our schools, our towns, wherever it is that God has placed us, we have received this great word of grace and have been planted so that we might offer that grace of the gospel to others.

Let's pray: Heavenly Father, you have given us this great gift. You have prepared the way before you. Give us that grace to preach your gospel, to see the hurting world that needs it, and to share your gospel with those who need to hear it. Give us wisdom and courage and boldness in so doing. Help us to remember that we, too, were enemies of God. We, too, were lost, and yet you prepared us to hear and receive your gospel. So, Lord, prepare us to go out and spread it to our friends, our neighbors, in this place where you have placed us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen."